ten years ago a friend of mine called
immigrant wrote about hiring programs he
said that he was seeing people being
interviewed with good computer science
degrees who while they knew all the
theory had no idea about how to actually
code in the real world and he proposed a
simple test now hiring programmers is a
tricky job I don't think that asking
complicated lateral thinking questions
is a good way to hire people and neither
is picking folks who you think will just
fit in but a simple test to make sure
that someone can actually code yeah that
makes sense so here's the test that
Imran proposed code something that'll
play the children's game of fizzbuzz
[Music]
fizzbuzz is really simple traditionally
it is played between two people and you
count up in turn one two three four
except every times a multiple of three
you say biz instead of the number and
every times a multiple of five you say
but so one two fizz for buzz is 7/8 his
person and so on and so on and when it's
multiple both at fifteen you say
fizzbuzz right so anyone who is going in
for a job in computer program should be
able to pass this test write a program
that outputs fizzbuzz for the numbers 1
to 100 and it's a clever test for a
number of reasons first there are many
possible approaches I'll run through a
couple of them here but you folks will
be able to come up with loads more if
you want to pause the video now and have
a go at it the approach that people
choose and how they work through the
problems will also give you a good
insight into the style of programming
they are due they quickly just budge
things together to make it work and fix
immediate problems but like I do or do
they start out by planning for the
future and trying to figure out what
might change later as well as that
fizzbuzz includes something that's a
little tricky to express well while
programming if it's a multiple of three
you do something if it's a multiple of
five you do something else if it's a
multiple of both you do a third thing
and if it's neither you do a fourth
thing that's not instantly translatable
into code so I'm going to show you how I
would do it the quick dodge it together
approach and then we'll see how we can
start to push it a little bit further
I'm writing in JavaScript it's not the
best language in the world this is one
of the easy
to start with first and most obvious
step create a loop we're going to want
to run through the numbers one to a
hundred so we create a for loop a for
loop works like this first run that bit
of code it creates a variable I and it
starts out with a number one then every
time it reaches the bottom of the loop
where the bracket is it goes back to the
top and it runs that bit of code
increasing I by one and then checks
against that bit of code if I is less
than or equal to a hundred it runs this
code again if not it exits the loop so
whatever's inside here we are doing it a
hundred times and in each loop I is
going to be increased by what
programmers use eye to eye for variables
like this because actually I have no
idea it's just tradition
okay next up we need something to output
the results in JavaScript the sort
that's in a plain text window you use
console.log for this you're putting it
in a web page you use something else
so console dot log brackets I output
whatever is in the I variable test it
and sure enough you get one for a
hundred sometimes though we want it to
output fizz or buzz instead so let's put
that in an if statement if if what if I
is a multiple of three we need to write
fizz so code and that percentage sign is
the modulo operator it returns the
remainder after you divide something so
here it's saying divide by three and
return the remainder if the remainder is
zero then we know I is a multiple of
three and we run that code if it remains
as anything else then I is not a
multiple of three and we skip it
so now again to five now what about
fizzbuzz if it's a multiple both three
and five well that's already been done
for us right if it's a multiple of both
then both those tests going to return
true and we get fizz and buzz so the
last bit if neither of those are true
just output the number in this case we
want that okay it doesn't look simple
but I promise it is that means not equal
to and that means and so this whole
section will only return true if both
the bits in brackets are true cool let's
run it and that's well it's okay I guess
it does the job except let's go on at
fifteen that doesn't say fizzbuzz that's
his fizz and then buzz too
lines two separate answers that is not
technically correct couldn't need to say
fizzbuzz there one line so we can add a
few more tests let's add a separate one
for fizzbuzz they're using what we've
learned already if both of those tests
return true clink fizzbuzz another had
some more tests in there so they don't
fire twice this is getting quite ugly
repeating yourself like this is a sign
of dodgy code it's clumsy it's difficult
to read it's difficult to maintain so
let's change it around a bit
let's test for both being true first now
we can use an else statement if it's not
a multiple of both is it just a multiple
of three and if it's not is it just a
multiple of five and if it's still not
then we know to just output the number
but to me this is still dodgy
because if someone says okay now we want
to work on multiples of seven not five
and that's a common sort of follow-up
question for something like this you
have to remember to change all the fives
not a big problem in a section of code
this small but once you start working on
something big this is really bad
practice ideally you shouldn't run the
same test twice but how else can it be
done well here's how I wrote this the
first time I tried it create a variable
called output that's just an empty
string a blank bit of text nothing in it
if I is multiple of 3 you add fizz to
that line of text you know output
anything yet you just store that the
future if I have a multiple of five you
add both to that line of text don't
replace it just add it and then don't
test the number again test that string
of text if it's empty we know a lot of
those tests are true so you just make
the text the value of I now at the end
of the loop you output the output so now
if whoever's running the interview says
make it work on sevens not fives you
only have to change one thing in an
obvious place if the same make it work
on Three's five seven eleven and
thirteen you just copy and paste that
line and it does programming that
without statements would be a nightmare
now I think there are still better ways
to code this particular if he wants to
plan long into the future after all
those lines there you know I'm
technically repeating myself but I'll
leave fixing that as a problem for
someone else this is good enough for me
now there are still some companies who
use this particular test for hiring but
thinkers you know vote some interviewers
can't think of anything better but there
are so many problems like it things that
a lot of computer science degrees don't
teach because they're all about the
theory me I'm more in favor of dodging
things together and making the work well
enough just don't leave too much of a
mess but whoever comes along to maintain
your code once you're done with it thank
you to everyone here at the Center for
computing history in Cambridge for
letting me film and thank you to all the
proofreading team who I'll make sure I
got my script right
you